feat: Add verify image signatures blog (#87)
kubewarden/kubewarden.io: content/blog/2022/05/verifying-image-signatures.md

---

> title: Verifying image signatures

Author: done in https://github.com/kubewarden/kubewarden.io/pull/87/commits/96d8cb9f05682b4fe33f6a7e1fdef2f4fc77edd7

authors:
- Raul Cabello Martin
date: 2022-05-02
---

> We keep adding support for verifying the integrity and authenticity of contents using the Sigstore project. In this

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We continue to add support for verifying the integrity and authenticity of artefacts within Kubewarden using the Sigstore project. In this
```

> We continue to add support for verifying the integrity and authenticity of artefacts within Kubewarden using the Sigstore project. In this

Reviewer 2: I would prefer something that makes it sound more production ready, and also points to previous blogpost:

> After this last releases Kubewarden now has support for verifying the integrity and authenticity of artefacts in the clusterf using the Sigstore project. In this post, we shall focus on verifying container image signatures using the
new [verify-image-signatures](https://github.com/kubewarden/verify-image-signatures) policy.
> 
> If you don't know how Sigstore works, our want to read on how to verify the authenticity of Kubewarden policies in particular, we recommend reading our previous post.

Author: previous blog is mentioned [here](https://github.com/kubewarden/kubewarden.io/pull/87/files#diff-cc14700ddc3ca1c4b8a11b8e6bcec540ac70a39579a1214ce141e8765d5a1d93R13)
How would you make it some more production ready?

Reviewer 2: I suppose I was thinking about the first words, from "we continue to add support", to "After these last releases Kubewarden now has support".

Author: done in https://github.com/kubewarden/kubewarden.io/pull/87/commits/6b6e154fd50b994a15592acf04c331a982d8ab6a

> post, we focus on verifying container image signatures using the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
post, we shall focus on verifying container image signatures using the
```

new [verify-image-signatures](https://github.com/kubewarden/verify-image-signatures) policy

If you don't know how Sigstore works, we recommend reading our
previous [blog](https://www.kubewarden.io/blog/2022/04/securing-kubewarden-policies/)

## Verify Image Signatures Policy

> This policy validates Sigstore signatures for images that match the name provided. If all signature validation pass or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This policy validates Sigstore signatures for images that match the name provided. If all signature validations pass or
```

> This policy validates Sigstore signatures for images that match the name provided. If all signature validations pass or

Reviewer 2: I would prefer to be closer to the policy readme, so people realize that we validate pods. How about something similar to:

> This policy validates Pods by checking their container images for signatures (that is, containers, init containers and ephemera containers in the pod). If all signature validations pass of there is no container image that matches the image name query, the Pod will be accepted.

Author: done in https://github.com/kubewarden/kubewarden.io/pull/87/commits/940ae906d54e4917ebb6aa9e7d1c5bc600cb66ed

> there is no container that matches the image name, the Pod will be accepted.

Reviewer: This is conflicting information in one sentence. What exactly are we trying to explain here, please?
As of now, this sentence reads as : If there is NO match for the image name OR the signature validations pass, then the pod gets accepted. Is this the intention?
```suggestion
there is no container that matches the image name, the Pod will be accepted.
```

Author: yes, that's correct. a Pod will be accepted if any of this happens:
- All signature validations pass. We will validate signature for all images that match the name provided.
- There is no image match for the name provided. In this case no validation is done and the pod is accepted

Reviewer 3: yeah, this is a bit confusing. I think reusing the README of the policy is better, because it's more clear about what is going to happen.

Author: changed in https://github.com/kubewarden/kubewarden.io/pull/87/commits/940ae906d54e4917ebb6aa9e7d1c5bc600cb66ed

> This policy also mutates matching images to add the image digest, therefore the version of the deployed image can't

Reviewer: Do we mean to convey that the policy mutates/alters matching images by adding the image digest so that the version of the deployed image can't change and we have a record?
```suggestion
This policy also mutates matching images to add the image digest, therefore the version of the deployed image can't
```

Reviewer 2: I would like to explain why mutation is needed. "Once the image has been verified with a signature, one needs to ensure that the specific image tag from that signature is the one instantiated. This is achieved by the policy by mutating the Pod request and pinning that validated tag".

Author: done in https://github.com/kubewarden/kubewarden.io/pull/87/commits/940ae906d54e4917ebb6aa9e7d1c5bc600cb66ed

change. This mutation can be disabled in the [settings](https://github.com/kubewarden/verify-image-signatures#settings).

## Let's see it in action!

For this example, a Kubernetes cluster with Kubewarden already installed is required. The installation process is
described in the [quick start guide](https://docs.kubewarden.io/quick-start.html).

We need an image with a signature that we can verify. You can use [cosign](https://github.com/sigstore/cosign) to sign
your images. For this example we'll use the image

> `ghcr.io/kubewarden/test-verify-image-signatures:signed` that was signed using a key. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`ghcr.io/kubewarden/test-verify-image-signatures:signed` that was signed using public key verification. 
```

              Dh+o3ZZs1puVW5FyS1cOusnLn209R0IOFL479vm1iFn+auB41JJZUxfc8g==
              -----END PUBLIC KEY-----
EOF
````

Wait for the policy to be active:

```
kubectl wait --for=condition=PolicyActive clusteradmissionpolicies verify-image-signatures
```

Verify we can create pods with containers that are signed:

```
kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: verify-image-valid
spec:
  containers:
  - name: test-verify-image
    image: ghcr.io/kubewarden/test-verify-image-signatures:signed
EOF
```

Then check that the image was modified with the digest

```
kubectl get pod verify-image-valid -o=jsonpath='{.spec.containers[0].image}'
```

```
ghcr.io/kubewarden/test-verify-image-signatures:signed@sha256:1d9d3da4c60d27b77bb96bba738319c1c4424853fdd10f65982f9f2ca2422a72
```

Finally, let's try to create a pod with an image that it is not signed:

```
kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: verify-image-invalid
spec:
  containers:
  - name: test-verify-image
    image: ghcr.io/kubewarden/test-verify-image-signatures:unsigned
EOF
```

We will get the following error:

```

> Error from server: error when creating "STDIN": admission webhook "clusterwide-verify-image-signatures.kubewarden.admission" denied the request: Pod verify-image-invalid is not accepted: verification of image ghcr.io/kubewarden/test-verify-image-signatures:unsigned failed: error invoking wapc verify: Error(HostError("Callback evaluation failure: signatures can't be fetched for image: ghcr.io/kubewarden/test-verify-image-signatures:unsigned"))

Reviewer 2: argh, this error is pretty awful. I thought we were showing "no signatures found" now..

Author: we can create a PR and change it to:

```
Error from server: error when creating "STDIN": admission webhook "clusterwide-verify-image-signatures.kubewarden.admission" denied the request: Pod verify-image-invalid is not accepted: verification of image ghcr.io/kubewarden/test-verify-image-signatures:unsigned failed: error invoking wapc verify: Error(HostError("Callback evaluation failure: no signatures found for image: ghcr.io/kubewarden/test-verify-image-signatures:unsigned"))
```

Reviewer 3: The policy is rejecting the request and setting the rejection failure to be the error message we got from the the host.

Can we ensure only the actual message is returned to the user? Right now it looks like the `Debug` (as in `"{:?}"` ) trait of the `Error` is used.

It would be better to simply have:
```
"Callback evaluation failure: no signatures found for image: ghcr.io/kubewarden/test-verify-image-signatures:unsigned"
```

Author: https://github.com/kubewarden/policy-fetcher/issues/85 created

Reviewer 2: PR for consuming the fix in the policy: https://github.com/kubewarden/verify-image-signatures/pull/12

```

> This policy may cover all your needs, but if you prefer you can build your own policy using one of the SDKs Kubewarden

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This policy is designed to meet all your needs. However, if you prefer you can build your own policy using one of the SDKs Kubewarden
```
